This is a markdown file. http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/

Abstract
=======
akc\_rfid stands for "augmented knight castle - radio-frequency identification". 

This software was written for the dissertation of Steve Hinske
<hinske@inf.ethz.ch> entitled "Digitally Augmenting Traditional Play
Environments".

It queries a locally connected RFID reader and writes enter and leave events for
detected RFID chips into a database.

Technical details
=================
The supported RFID reader is a [FEIG ID ISC.MR101-A](http://www.feig.de/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=99&Itemid=126&lang=en)

The supported database is a MySQL 5.0 database.

Dependencies
============
 - [mysql](http://www.mysql.com/) version 5.0
 - [mini xml](http://www.minixml.org/) version 2.6

Setup
=====

Database details
----------------
The software expects a table according to the following create statement:

	create table events (
		id bigint unsigned auto_increment not null, 
		antenna tinyint unsigned not null, 
		time timestamp not null, 
		tag bigint unsigned not null, 
		type enum('enter', 'leave') not null, 
		primary key(id)
	);

mini xml
--------
Build and install mini xml according to the README of the project. 

It is recommended to configure mini xml with --enable-threads=no.

Compiling
=========
Adjust the Makefile to make your mxml installation visible to the
compiler, e.g. modify the -I and the -L flags. The mysql header and
library files are considered to be installed in your system's default
paths. If not add further -I and -L flags for it.

Build the source with `make`.

Runtime
=======
Command line
------------
The executable takes one optional parameter which is the name of the
configuration file. The default name for the configuration file is
rfid\_cfg.xml.

Configuration
-------------
The configuration file is a XML 1.0 file. It must be valid according to
the XML Schema akc\_rfid\_config.xsd.

The sections are:

 - database: configuration for the MySQL connection
 - reader: configuration for the RFID reader driver
 - logic: configuration for the program logic 

### database
 * host: the hostname of the MySQL server
 * user: the username to use
 * passwd: the password to use
 * dbname: the name of the database to use
 * port: the port to use. Hereby 0 stands for the default port, which is 3306

### reader
 * numberofAntennas: how many antennas are attached to the reader
 * device: the device name for the serial connection to the reader
 * timeout: read timeout for the reader
 
### logic
Currently there are no configuration items for this section.

Copying
=======
This software is published under the GPL version 2 and not any later.

Authors
=======
Alexander Bernauer <bernauer@inf.ethz.ch>

References
==========
The reader module was derived from an implementation of Raffael Bachmann <raffael.bachmann@a4d.ch>
